style: apply /style-guide pass to models/automations (#2684)
wandb/docs: models/automations/create-automations/webhook.mdx

---
title: Create a webhook automation
description: "Create a webhook automation in W&B to send HTTP requests to external services when specific events occur."
keywords: ["HTTP request", "GitHub Actions", "repository dispatch", "CI/CD pipeline", "webhook payload"]
---
import EnterpriseCloudOnly from "/snippets/_includes/enterprise-cloud-only.mdx";

<Info>
<EnterpriseCloudOnly/>
</Info>

> This page shows how to create a webhook [automation](/models/automations), which sends an HTTP request to an external service when a specific event occurs in W&B. Use a webhook automation to integrate W&B with external systems such as CI/CD pipelines, notification services, or custom tooling. To create a Slack automation, refer to [Create a Slack automation](/models/automations/create-automations/slack) instead.

Reviewer: 👍

            - **Filter to one user's runs**: Include only runs created by the specified user. Click the toggle to turn on the filter, then specify a username.
            - **Filter on run name**: Include only runs whose names match the given regular expression. Click the toggle to turn on the filter, then specify a regular expression.

          The automation applies to all collections in the project, including those added in the future.
    1. Click **Next step**.
1. Select the team that owns the [webhook](#create-a-webhook).
1. Set **Action type** to **Webhooks**. Then select the [webhook](#create-a-webhook) to use.
1. If your webhook requires a payload, construct it and paste it into the **Payload** field. If you configured an access token for the webhook, you can access the token in the `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` [payload variable](#payload-variables). If you configured a secret for the webhook, you can access it in the payload by prefixing its name with `$`. The webhook's service determines your webhook's requirements.
1. Click **Next step**.
1. Provide a name for the automation. Optionally, provide a description. Click **Create automation**.
</Tab>
</Tabs>

> After you complete these steps, the automation is active and triggers the webhook whenever the specified event occurs in the registry or project.

Reviewer: Would it be better as "runs the webhook"?

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

## View and manage automations

> After you create an automation, you can review, edit, or delete it from the **Automations** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review, edit, or delete an automation from the **Automations** tab.
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

| `${artifact_metadata.<KEY>}`  | The value of an arbitrary top-level metadata key from the artifact version that triggered the action. Replace `<KEY>` with the name of a top-level metadata key. Only top-level metadata keys are available in the webhook's payload. |
| `${artifact_version}`         | The [`Wandb.Artifact`](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact) representation of the artifact version that triggered the action. |
| `${artifact_version_string}` | The `string` representation of the artifact version that triggered the action. |

> | `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` | The value of the access token configured in the [webhook](#create-a-webhook), if you configured an access token. W&B automatically passes the access token in the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` | The value of the access token configured in the [webhook](#create-a-webhook), if you configured an access token. W&B automatically passes it in the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header. |
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

Use template strings to dynamically pass context from W&B to GitHub Actions and other tools. If those tools can call Python scripts, they can consume the registered model artifacts through the [W&B API](/models/artifacts/download-and-use-an-artifact).

> For more information about repository dispatch with W&B, see the following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the following resources:
```
This looks like a copypaste from the next sentence. Not all of these resources are specifically about repository dispatch.

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

- For more information about repository dispatch, see the [official documentation on the GitHub Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/repository-dispatch).
- Watch the videos [Webhook Automations for Model Evaluation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7j-Mtbo-E74&ab_channel=Weights%26Biases) and [Webhook Automations for Model Deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5UiAFjM2nA&ab_channel=Weights%26Biases), which guide you to create automations for model evaluation and deployment.

> - Review the W&B report [Model CI/CD with W&B](https://wandb.ai/wandb/wandb-model-cicd/reports/Model-CI-CD-with-W-B--Vmlldzo0OTcwNDQw), which illustrates how to use a GitHub Actions webhook automation for model CI. For an example of model CI with a Modal Labs webhook, see the [wandb-modal-webhook GitHub repository](https://github.com/hamelsmu/wandb-modal-webhook).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Review the W&B report [Model CI/CD with W&B](https://wandb.ai/wandb/wandb-model-cicd/reports/Model-CI-CD-with-W-B--Vmlldzo0OTcwNDQw), which illustrates how to use a GitHub Actions webhook automation for model CI.
- For an example of model CI with a Modal Labs webhook, see the [wandb-modal-webhook GitHub repository](https://github.com/hamelsmu/wandb-modal-webhook).
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

}
```

> You can use template strings to inject W&B data into your payload at the time of execution (as shown in the preceding Teams example).

Reviewer: As a team we decided against "preceding / proceding".
```suggestion
You can use template strings to inject W&B data into your payload at the time of execution. See the [Teams example](#microsoft-teams-notification)..
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00 (single trailing period).

</Tabs>

## Troubleshoot your webhook

> If a webhook isn't behaving as expected, you can troubleshoot it interactively with the W&B App UI or programmatically with a Bash script. You can troubleshoot a webhook when you create a new webhook or edit an existing webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a webhook isn't working as expected, you can troubleshoot it interactively with the W&B App UI or programmatically with a shell script. You can troubleshoot a webhook during creation or afterward.
```

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

For details about the format W&B uses for the `POST` request, refer to the **Bash script** tab.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="W&B App UI">
A team admin can test a webhook interactively with the W&B App UI.

> 1. Navigate to your W&B Team Settings page.

Reviewer: Nit: I'd say this differently because the settings page depends on the team. Maybe "Go to your team page, then click **Settings**.

Author: Applied in 4992e00.

1. Scroll to the **Webhooks** section.
1. Click the **action (<Icon icon="ellipsis" iconType="solid"/>)** menu next to the name of your webhook.
1. Select **Test**.
1. From the UI panel that appears, paste your `POST` request into the field that appears.
    <Frame>
    <img src="/images/models/webhook_ui.png" alt="Demo of testing a webhook payload" />
    </Frame>
1. Click **Test webhook**. Within the W&B App UI, W&B posts the response from your endpoint.
    <Frame>
    <img src="/images/models/webhook_ui_testing.gif" alt="Demo of testing a webhook" />
    </Frame>

Watch the video [Testing Webhooks in W&B](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bl44fDpMGJw&ab_channel=Weights%26Biases) for a demonstration.
</Tab>

> <Tab title="Bash script">

Reviewer: Nit: Are we over-indexing on "Bash". Surely most modern systems are using zsh.

Author: Renamed the tab to **Shell script** and updated the cross-reference in 4992e00. Kept the `bash` lexer and `#!/bin/bash` shebang since the script as written is bash-flavored.
